>> Brian Holt: Okay, let's go to ref.js.
So this is where, in my opinion,
this starts getting hard.
So I have this useRef example here and
if I click delay logging.
>> Brian Holt: Notice that it says,
you can see right there it says,
state one ref one.
But notice this says in the alert,
state zero ref one, okay?
And I want to show you here increments in
delay logging which is the function that's
actually doing the alert, right?
>> Brian Holt: The set state, I call that
right away and I say set state plus one,
right?
And I say numRef current plus plus,
you would assume that state number and
current because they're always
kept in locked step, right?
Use state and use ref right here,
they both start at zero and
they're both incremented at the same time.
They would be the same always, right?
So why aren't they the same?
>> Brian Holt: Well this is kind
of the problem that you run into,
this is a problem with a closure, right?
And if you don't understand closure super
well, Kyle Simpson has a great course on
it in Frontend Masters, so
definitely check that out.
But suffice to say that stateNumber
here actually doesn't change.
So I am setting stateNumber,
and it is incrementing,
and it is causing a re-render, right?
So when I click delay logging,
notice that state and
ref both change immediately, right?
But this state number from the previous
iteration has not changed, right?
And this closure is holding
onto this state number, right?
So what's actually getting logged out is
the previous version of the state number.
Watch what happens if I click it twice.
>> Brian Holt: Two and four, right?
And the reason being is it's reading
out of numRef.current, that's always
going to be the exact moment in time,
this is what that numRef's value is.
Whereas stateRef for the state number is
always being held onto the previous one,
because of the closure
holding onto that state.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
>> Brian Holt: And the reason why this
context is being different is cuz we're
doing a set time out and
logging in the future.
>> Brian Holt: This is
what Refs are used for.
They're useful because they allow you, if
you have a problem, where you have these
multiple closure problems where you
need to hold on to the same state.
Maybe it's very important that this
useRef be always the exact right one and
it can be called in any context.
That's when you would want to use a Ref,
right?
So if you were doing a class component,
you would just make an instance variable
in the class, and
that's how we would handle that, right?
That's how we've always
handled that before in React,.
But we don't have that ability anymore
because this is no longer a class,
it's a function, right?
So useRef allows us to do that.
So what useRef does is it
gives you this object.
And this object has exactly one
thing on it called current.
It actually will error if I try and
say numRef.something else equals five.
It says hey,
this object is not extensible.
So it actually literally limits
you to only use current.
>> Brian Holt: If I say current,
that'll go away, okay?
They do that by sealing the object.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about Refs?
>> Brian Holt: So this'll be useful for
things like holding onto
DOM elements frequently.
It's also useful holding onto timeouts and
holding onto intervals so
you can make sure that
you get the correct one.